8 and then maybe we do one or two questions from tutorial 9. Okay. Let me see. Okay so tutorial 8 we start at question 5. Let me share my screen. Okay. Can you see my screen? Okay. So let's look at question tutorial 8, question 5. Okay. So how companies and government can prepare to defend cyber attack? Okay. So how companies and government can prepare for a cyber attack? All right. Now as company or government, if you have computer systems, firstly is for you to know and assess the risk that you have. Okay. Understand what systems you know that you own, what systems that you have and then how you want to make sure that all these systems are safe from all these different types of hackers or attackers. Okay. So you need to know what are the current systems or applications or hardware that are potential vulnerabilities. So any one of your system that may have a loophole, a backdoor that you need to fix. Right. Or certain application, the programming language is too old or obsolete, it's not supported anymore. So you need to be able to understand the risk that is involved and assess what you need to do. Okay. To make sure that it won't be a target for these hackers or attackers. Okay. So assess your risk, understand what are the current problems and issues. Second one is if you have an encryption software or a method to protect data, that would be the best. Okay. So if you have certain solutions that you can use, if you have certain solutions that you can use in order to encrypt your data, especially for example, personal banking information or password. Right. So for example, like if you use iPhone or certain phones, they have, what's it called, they can suggest use strong password. Right. Use strong password function. So you can use that to ensure that your password is protected. Okay. Same thing, you can encrypt your data to make sure that it is protected. Okay. Number three is employer training and awareness. If you work for a company, for example, you work for Maybank or certain organization where they have a lot of PNC data, a lot of private and confidential data. So you need to make sure that your employees are aware of the consequences if they take your data, if they take the data and they steal it or they take the data and sell it. Right. So selling of data is actually very lucrative. It's a lot of money. Okay. In the market, one data of a person, okay, let's say name and phone number is about two ringgit, okay, per data. So if you have like 20,000 data, easily you can earn about 40,000 ringgit. Right. But if more information is available, means not just the name and phone number, but maybe name, phone number and address, where they stay. Okay. So if more information, then it could cost like five ringgit. Okay. So if five ringgit per data and you have 20,000 data, okay, that's about, you know, hundred thousand ringgit. Right. So it's a lot of money. All right. So you need to train the employees to understand, make them aware what is the consequence because if they are caught stealing or using the data, they can be fired. Right. Or they can be reported to police and so on. All right. So that is the three things that companies or government can do to help ensure, okay, that we protect from all these various kinds of unwanted hackers. Okay. Any question? Okay. No question. Now let's look at question six. What role does private sector play in supporting Malaysia readiness for surprise cyber attacks? What partnership exists between government and industry? Okay. So companies and government can work together in order to prevent any form of attacks. Okay. In a country. All right. So companies specifically can provide software solution. Okay. I'm sure you're going for internship or you may be going for internship soon or you have done your internship. Right. So you will still have companies offering all kinds of solutions, all kinds of software. So companies can provide their expertise, all right, by providing software solutions that can help prevent. Okay. Help prevent. So for example, like firewall, encryption software and so on. Okay. So SMEs can play a part to promote all this kind of software. Of course, you have to buy or pay for it. It doesn't come for free. Right. But there is options available if the government or companies decide to use it. Okay. Number two is you need to ensure that your staff is trained. Okay. Send them for training. Send them for skill development. Programming languages, for example, over time they become obsolete. Right. They become obsolete. So you need to make sure your staff is familiar with the latest technological trends, latest tools, latest language so that they can find ways to make sure that, you know, your system is well maintained or updated. Right. Okay. So if you don't, for example, if you don't patch up certain security patches or if you do not update certain information, then it can be an opportunity for hackers to go into the system and, you know, steal data or so on. Okay. So you must send your staff or you yourself must go for training and skill development to make sure that you always keep up to date. All right. Government has a lot of training programs. For example, like MDEC, M-D-E-C, they do provide training and skill development for fresh graduates so you can find out more information and see how you can participate. Even like Cybersecurity Malaysia also have free training programs. Certification, of course, you may have to pay but it is good to attend all these trainings if you are free or you're still finding for job opportunity or internship and so on. Okay. Last one is Threat Intelligence Sharing. Okay. Now what this means is that if, let's say, Maybank got attacked, okay, they got attacked by hacker, okay, by a ransomware attack, ultimately they should share that information to other banks or to the government, right? So why is it good to share? then they can prepare for the other banks or the you know government can prepare for this attack okay they can make sure that their system is good enough they can make sure that their systems are well protected right so who if whoever got attacked they should share that information so that is the meaning of threat intelligence sharing okay however a lot of companies don't share let's say I am a bank I got attacked by ransomware I won't share that detail or in that information to others mainly because it is embarrassing okay imagine you're a big organization your patronus or your bank and you got attacked by some hackers so it is an embarrassing situation and it can cause investors to run away okay so it can cause the company's reputation to drop their stock price okay their stocks to fall and then investors may run away customers may run away and so on okay so that's why they don't share all right if you see any information on news normally they will just deny okay deny that such thing has taken place okay so that is the issue we are not for this kind of thing we are not so open to share this kind of information okay so this is how we can work together in order to make sure right companies and government can collaborate well to prevent from all these hackers okay any question are you all here or sleeping not sleeping ah on the bed lying down okay thanks Samantha okay number seven number seven actually I don't have answer it's just basically expressing how privacy anonymity and freedom of expression relate to each other okay I'm sure you understand these three words privacy okay means your personal privacy or information or even what you post online okay it's something that's private to you maybe you show a picture of a dress you bought right or you show a picture of your cat or your dog okay so that is your personal preference or what you like okay so that is private to you right anonymity means someone that you do not know who is the person or the identity okay so if you see on Instagram Facebook and so on there's a lot of these keyboard warriors or anonymous people that will just post whatever they want to say okay so the thing they say may not be very nice it may be hurtful it may be demeaning okay so this is known as the freedom of expression okay so yes you can say anything online however there should be a limit right of not invading someone's privacy okay so let's say for the person just learn about makeup and post on Facebook right it doesn't mean that you should say something bad about the person's ability or skill okay so yes you can express your opinions and thoughts but that doesn't mean you can hurt someone or or invade someone's privacy okay so basically for question 7 you just need to know how to relate all these three words okay these three key points together all right okay now let's look at question 8 what role do social media platforms and online service providers okay social media platforms like Facebook Instagram so on and online service providers like your telecom maxis and so on okay or any other service providers you can think of what can they do to prevent issues like cyber stalking or even issues like cyber bullying okay so let's take an example if you see Facebook Instagram or tick talk right they can allow users to make a report okay they can allow users to block the account right if there are instances to believe that this account is unsafe or hurtful okay so this is an example of a feature that this social media application have okay recently I think two days ago three days ago yesterday I'm not sure you know about this case okay so this is an example of how social media platforms can help report okay a particular case so this is about in Malaysia this was about a man who basically drives a school bus of kids to for children to go school right fetch them to school and come back from school right but he so he used the platform tick-tock to go live and you know show what he do every day basically is driving the school bus all right so what happened was when he record the school children of course he did he does things that is not very pleasant but basically he's recording videos of children's face okay yeah rising trend of minors being featured in social media videos without their consent okay so yeah actually children children between certain age I'm not sure what age but below certain age you cannot record their face and put on social media okay so unless with the mother's permission or with the children's permission okay but normally with the mother's the parents permission all right so this is an example where the social media platform allows people to report this particular person okay and he was actually caught by police and he was charged in court right he was charged in court so this is an example of you know platforms that needs to protect okay protect people ah so yeah so you can make a report if you join for example this court or Facebook groups sometimes the admin okay the admin of the group they will have guidelines okay they will have guidelines that actually say like what you can do or what you cannot do on this platform okay for example like certain admin they will say okay you can you can sell your product or you cannot say any vulgar words you cannot say bad word so on so forth okay so these are examples of guidelines but again they are just guidelines they are not rules rules okay so if you don't follow the admin may or may not kick you out of the group all right so most of the time you will get kicked out if you say something bad or you don't follow what are the guidelines or rules in the group okay so this is more to admin facilitating the situation in the particular discord group or Facebook group whatever okay lastly is moderation of content for example like YouTube or I think even Facebook YouTube specifically I know they do have a group of people that moderate content meaning that they watch the video and they will remove video that is not suitable or unsafe okay so even though YouTube has some AI mechanism to filter but that's not totally 100% effective okay so they still need a human intervention to watch all these videos and to make sure that it is safe okay it follows the you know whatever guidelines lah okay YouTube guidelines or whatever so to make sure that the video is safe there's no like on sexual activities or there's no how to say like how to build a bomb how to use a gun that kind of unsafe behavior okay on that platform all right so but however because there's so many content on YouTube it's very difficult to eliminate everything okay eliminate everything even videos like that that is against the copyright act okay maybe there's a movie all right that uploaded like spider-man Superman movie or whatever okay they will also remove it all right because it's against the copyright act okay so yeah platforms they do have features that can enable safer usage of the platform but it doesn't mean that it's 100% effective you know there's probably still manual work that needs to be done to make sure that it is safe for everyone to use okay any question okay thank you okay maybe I do one or two more questions from tutorial 9 okay tutorial 9 online crime and real punishment okay question one what are the potential impacts and consequences of malware crimes on individuals and organizations okay so what are the impacts and consequence okay of malware crimes on individuals and organization right now okay so what is the impact what is the consequence firstly the impact if there's a malware problem or ransomware attack for example okay it may cause data breach all right it may cause your sensitive information to be stolen okay for example credit card information all right or your house address or your phone number okay so all this information may cause problems for example someone may use your credit card someone may use your bank account information and spend all the money in account all right so that is an example of implication what is the consequence if there is you know some kind of attack okay some kind of malware crimes on your personal information okay or what if the malware was was you know it was happen happen in a what you call it may bank or CIMB and so on right your sensitive information your banking information your password okay may be part of the risk all right so this is one example okay now secondly it can cause destruction to your operations okay so if let's say your password or your account information was stolen or your information your sorry your banking account was blocked okay because of this malware activity so you are not allowed to do your daily activities for example like if you want to top up your touch and go you can't do that right or you need to pay your bills you can't do that okay so it causes problems right and and sometimes the problem is not so easy to fix it may take like one week for the solution to for the for the bank to help retrieve that account okay if if if that is fast enough right okay so you're not able to basically complete whatever activity that you intend to do okay so thirdly is reputation damage okay so as I said just now earlier if a bank got hacked okay got attacked by a malware right then they most likely do not want to admit that there was a hack that in their system there was a problem in the system okay because it may tarnish the reputation of the company okay how can it tarnish reputation of the individual let's say for example your Facebook account got hacked and someone used your account to post x-rated materials right so you as an individual you will feel embarrassed okay because your account is being used to post you know all these unwanted posts postings okay so that is an example of reputation damage that may happen to individuals all right not just company okay so this some consequence because of a malware attack all right okay question two what are the ethical and legal indications of developing or distributing malware what measures are in place to address this concern at the global level okay now at what are the ethical implications okay so think there's no direct answer here I want you to think for yourself okay so as individuals or even if companies all right how how information that is being stolen okay can cause privacy and security ethical issues right because as company for example your obligation to your clients is to make sure that the information stays safe okay your obligation to your clients is to make sure that the the for example the data okay is encrypted right the data is kept behind a firewall okay so if if the information is being stolen right so what is the implication to your clients okay what is the supposed ethics okay that comes into play right so that is for ethical now for legal what is the legal implication of a person developing distributing or using malware okay I'm sure you seen before some videos or some social media post or whatever okay identifying people who are scammers right scammers so they scam to get money right so same thing like this if person develop the malware and distribute right or or go and attack other people okay what are the legal consequences how can you catch or identify this person right and how can you bring him to court or is there a police that can catch him okay so what are the laws there are cybersecurity laws right but is it easy to catch this person okay so that is a legal implication now how to address these two issues So as I said, there are cyber security laws to help cripple criminal activities. Okay, I'm sure you understand what is a cyber security law, but that's provided you're able to identify the person. As I said previously also, a lot of these hackers and so on, they are mostly anonymous. They don't really, of course they don't identify, they don't reveal their self or identify themselves. So it's very hard to catch them. Okay, so if you can catch them, okay fine, you can go under the cyber security law. Another one is actually international corporation where there's this law called international conventions and treaties. So what happens is that countries, okay, let's say Malaysia and Thailand, we cooperate together to try to catch certain criminals. Okay, so what happens is that if there's a criminal that is detected overseas, okay, let's say the person committed the crime in Malaysia, but the person has run away to Thailand. Okay, so we work together with, you know, Thai police in order to help catch, okay, that particular criminal. Okay, so that's called international cooperation. I'm not sure whether I can find, let me see, I wanted to find, I want to show example of criminal activity. Let me see. Okay, let me, okay, so let me see, let me just read. I'm just trying to show you an example of how Malaysia cooperate with different countries, all right, to catch certain people. Okay, this is not cyber security, but this is an example. So a Briton who sexually abused Malaysian infants and children while volunteering in provisional Christian communities in KL over eight-year period on Monday was sentenced in London to 22 concurrent life sentences. So you can see here that Malaysian, okay, work together with, is it British or UK, with the Britain law system in order to try to catch this person, okay, to catch this person. So this person actually abused, sexually abused children when he is in KL, when he was in KL, okay, then he went back to wherever he is in UK and they managed to catch him and they, here, and they actually put him in jail basically, okay. So this is what I mean by cooperation, right. Even though he has ran away from our country, okay, but in UK, they can still catch him and sentence him to jail or whatever penalty that they want to give to him, okay. So this is an example of cooperation, right. Doesn't mean that if he commit a crime in Malaysia, if he run away, that's it, right. There's no, there's no conclusion to the story. So even though he commit a crime in Malaysia, but he ran away, he still get caught and he still get sentenced to jail. So this is the, this is the example of how we cooperate, okay. The Malaysian government and the UK government cooperate to make sure that any criminal gets caught, okay. So it's the same thing with cyber security, okay. If it is a cyber security issue, it's also the same thing, alright. So this is one example, okay. So this is what it means by international cooperation. Any questions? Okay, thank you. Now, last question before we go. Okay, how does severity of punishments for malware crime vary across different jurisdictions, okay. Severity of punishment vary across different jurisdictions. What does it mean? Severity of punishment means how bad is the punishment, how bad is the punishment. So is it one year, two years, five years, ten years, okay. Why is it different? Why does it vary across different jurisdictions, means different areas, different countries, okay. So the question is, why different countries, different severity of punishment, okay. I think not only for malware crimes, but any other crime like, you know, robbery or just now like sexual abuse and so on and so forth, okay, different kinds of crimes. Why is it different in different country, okay. So different country, right, has different legal framework. Simple as that, okay. Each country, they treat different crimes differently, different weightage, different weightage, okay. For example, like in Singapore, okay, if you bring drugs to Singapore or you smuggle drugs into Singapore, doesn't matter how much you bring, whether it's thousand kilo gram or you bring 0.001 gram, okay, immediately you will be sentenced to death, okay. Doesn't matter how much you bring into the country, okay. So that is how serious they weigh or they consider drug smuggling, alright. That's how serious they think drug is to the country, okay. But in Malaysia, for example, if you take drugs or you smuggle drugs into Malaysia, okay, maybe if certain kilogram, then you get the sentence. If less than how many gram, only prison, okay, or go to rehabilitation, okay. So just because different country has different legal framework, right, different severity lah, the punishment, okay. In Singapore, it's death penalty, but in Malaysia, it could be jail or rotan, okay, so it's not necessarily death punishment, okay. Certain countries, for example, in the European countries, instead of giving harsh penalties, instead of putting them in jail, instead of give them rotan hundred times, right, what they do is they have rehabilitation program, okay, rehabilitation program. What this means is that instead of treating them like a criminal, they treat them like they need counseling, okay. So they give them counseling, I mean they put them in the jail, but instead of treating them like a criminal, they give them counseling, they help them to do some work, okay. For example, teach them to how to cook, teach them how to do metal work, teach them how to sew, okay, all those skills, skill work lah, okay, use hands to do work, right. Sometimes they rehabilitate by allowing the staff, allowing the, sorry, allowing these people in jail to go religious classes, for example, okay, or share on TV about their experience and how they can now become a better person, okay. So instead of giving them like rotan or hang them to death and so on they rehabilitate them to become a better person okay but this is normally in the European countries okay not not so much in in Asia or Southeast Asia alright. Third one is the degree of harm okay how much harm that is being done so for example I put here okay the harm can be individual or can be a company for example if you what is it called if you steal one person's data compared to if you steal 1,000 people's data of course you steal 1,000 people's data is more heavier penalty compared to one person's data you understand right okay so like let's say you smuggle drugs right 1,000 kilo the drugs of course the penalty is more higher compared to 1 kilo if you bring in 1 kilo of drugs right so that is an example degree of harm okay so different countries have different way of treating all these kinds of criminals or activities so it depends on their legal framework legal system okay so there's no like one rule for every country okay there's no one rule for every country alright any question